README.md, before:

![build](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/Tavenem/Blazor.ImageEditor/publish/main) [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/)

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor
==

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is a [Razor class
library](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class) (RCL) containing a
[Razor component](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/class-libraries).
It allows displaying an image with basic image edit controls, and has mechanisms for saving and
restoring the edited file.

It wraps the [Fabric.js](http://fabricjs.com/) HTML5 canvas library.

## Installation

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is available as a [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/).

## Use

1. Call the `AddImageEditor()` extension method on your `IServiceCollection` (probably in
`Program.Main` for a Blazor WebAssembly project, or `Startup.ConfigureServices` for a Blazor server
project).

1. Add the following css reference to the head section of your index.html (for Blazor WebAssembly)
   or _Host.cshtml (for Blazor server):

   ````html
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/style.css" />
   ````

   Note that you must [enable static
   files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/static-files) to serve content
   from a RCL.

   Why is this stylesheet not included via [Blazor CSS
   isolation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/css-isolation)? Because
   it must apply outside the scope of the component. It refers to a dynamically-generated DOM
   element managed by the [Fabric.js](http://fabricjs.com/) library which is appended to the body.

1. Add the following script references to the bottom fo the body section of your index.html (for
   Blazor WebAssembly) or _Host.cshtml (for Blazor server):

   ````html
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/fabric.js/4.3.1/fabric.min.js" integrity="sha512-ACqMrfAtm537AWzgx/xQ57JnFxXeq8RylQMGg4y/e6M2ew4Z8NycE8aId/Bt2ZE+w1gNsox3MgwxKl7SGMRdtA==" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/webfont/1.6.26/webfont.js"></script>
   ````

   Why use external resources instead of packaging the libraries with the RCL? Because it keeps the
   package (and any downstream packages you build with it) small; and because it can improve browser
   caching, especially if the libraries and this package have different update cycles.

1. Include an `ImageEditor` component on a page.

1. To set an initial image, call the `LoadImageAsync(string?)` method with the URL of an image you
   wish to display.
   
   Alternatively, you can omit this step and the editor will start as a blank canvas onto which a
   user may draw.

1. The user may toggle the control from preview mode (displays the original image) to edit mode with
   a button.
   
   Alternatively, you may set the `ShowEditButton` parameter to false to disable the edit mode
   button. In that case you can toggle edit mode programmatically with the `BeginEditAsync` and
   `CancelEditAsync` methods. You can also supply custom UI to replace the default button (see below
   for more information).

1. When in edit mode, the component displays a selection of common image editing controls which
   allow drawing onto the image.
   
   Alternatively, you may set the `ShowEditControls` parameter to false to disable the default edit
   UI. In that case you would need to supply custom UI to enable image editing (see below for more
   information).

1. The default UI includes a "download" button that will invoke the browser's file save option, to
   save a copy of their edited image. You may also choose to provide values for the
   `GetObjUrlCallback` and/or `SaveJsonCallback` parameters. If you do the user will also see an
   additional "save" button which will invoke both of these callbacks.
   
   `GetObjUrlCallback` will be passed an object URL referencing the current, edited image. You may
   use this to work with the edited image. For example, to get the image as a byte array for
   persisting to storage:

   ```csharp
   var bytes = await HttpClient.GetByteArrayAsync(url);
   ```

   The object URL will remain valid as long as the `ImageEditor` component remains active. When the
   component is disposed, all object URLs it generated will be revoked.
   
   The `SaveJsonCallback` callback will receive a JSON string containing a serialized representation
   of the editor's state. This can be passed to the `LoadJSONAsync(string?)` method to allow a user
   to resume editing where they left off.

The `ImageEditor` component supports multiple options for adding custom UI:

  - If you supply `ChildContent` (additional markup nested inside the component, with or without a
    wrapping `ChildContent` element), it will be displayed below the existing controls in both edit
    and preview mode (regardless of the `ShowEditControls` parameter's value).

  - If you supply an `EditContent` child element, it will be displayed when the control is in edit
    mode (regardless of the `ShowEditControls` parameter's value). If you *also* provide an explicit
    `ChildContent` element, the `ChildContent` will be displayed below the `EditContent` when in
    edit mode.

  - If you supply a `PreviewContent` child element, it will be displayed when the control is in
    preview mode (regardless of the `ShowEditButton` parameter's value). If you *also* provide an
    explicit `ChildContent` element, the `ChildContent` will be displayed below the `PreviewContent`
    when in preview mode.

## Roadmap

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is currently in a prerelease state. Development is ongoing, and breaking
changes are possible before the first production release.

No release date is currently set for v1.0 of Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor.

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Please carefully read the [contributing](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) document to learn more before submitting issues or pull requests.

## Code of conduct

Please read the [code of conduct](docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before engaging with our community, including but not limited to submitting or replying to an issue or pull request.

Commit message:

Add bootstrap mention to README

README.md, after:

![build](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/Tavenem/Blazor.ImageEditor/publish/main) [![NuGet downloads](https://img.shields.io/nuget/dt/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/)

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor
==

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is a [Razor class
library](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class) (RCL) containing a
[Razor component](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/class-libraries).
It allows displaying an image with basic image edit controls, and has mechanisms for saving and
restoring the edited file.

It wraps the [Fabric.js](http://fabricjs.com/) HTML5 canvas library.

## Installation

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is available as a [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/).

## Use

1. Call the `AddImageEditor()` extension method on your `IServiceCollection` (probably in
`Program.Main` for a Blazor WebAssembly project, or `Startup.ConfigureServices` for a Blazor server
project).

1. Add the following css references to the head section of your index.html (for Blazor WebAssembly)
   or _Host.cshtml (for Blazor server):

   ````html
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.0.0-beta3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" integrity="sha384-eOJMYsd53ii+scO/bJGFsiCZc+5NDVN2yr8+0RDqr0Ql0h+rP48ckxlpbzKgwra6" crossorigin="anonymous">
   <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor/style.css" />
   ````

   Note that you must [enable static
   files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/static-files) to serve content
   from a RCL.

   Why is the custom stylesheet not included via [Blazor CSS
   isolation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/css-isolation)? Because
   it must apply outside the scope of the component. It refers to a dynamically-generated DOM
   element managed by the [Fabric.js](http://fabricjs.com/) library which is appended to the body.

   You may supply any version of Bootstrap compatible with the listed version. Alternatively, you
   may omit the Bootstrap reference entirely. However, the control will not display well unless you
   provide compatible alternative styling in your own stylesheets.

1. Add the following script references to the bottom fo the body section of your index.html (for
   Blazor WebAssembly) or _Host.cshtml (for Blazor server):

   ````html
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/fabric.js/4.3.1/fabric.min.js" integrity="sha512-ACqMrfAtm537AWzgx/xQ57JnFxXeq8RylQMGg4y/e6M2ew4Z8NycE8aId/Bt2ZE+w1gNsox3MgwxKl7SGMRdtA==" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/webfont/1.6.26/webfont.js"></script>
   ````

   Why use external resources instead of packaging the libraries with the RCL? Because it keeps the
   package (and any downstream packages you build with it) small; and because it can improve browser
   caching, especially if the libraries and this package have different update cycles.

1. Include an `ImageEditor` component on a page.

1. To set an initial image, call the `LoadImageAsync(string?)` method with the URL of an image you
   wish to display.
   
   Alternatively, you can omit this step and the editor will start as a blank canvas onto which a
   user may draw.

1. The user may toggle the control from preview mode (displays the original image) to edit mode with
   a button.
   
   Alternatively, you may set the `ShowEditButton` parameter to false to disable the edit mode
   button. In that case you can toggle edit mode programmatically with the `BeginEditAsync` and
   `CancelEditAsync` methods. You can also supply custom UI to replace the default button (see below
   for more information).

1. When in edit mode, the component displays a selection of common image editing controls which
   allow drawing onto the image.
   
   Alternatively, you may set the `ShowEditControls` parameter to false to disable the default edit
   UI. In that case you would need to supply custom UI to enable image editing (see below for more
   information).

1. The default UI includes a "download" button that will invoke the browser's file save option, to
   save a copy of their edited image. You may also choose to provide values for the
   `GetObjUrlCallback` and/or `SaveJsonCallback` parameters. If you do the user will also see an
   additional "save" button which will invoke both of these callbacks.
   
   `GetObjUrlCallback` will be passed an object URL referencing the current, edited image. You may
   use this to work with the edited image. For example, to get the image as a byte array for
   persisting to storage:

   ```csharp
   var bytes = await HttpClient.GetByteArrayAsync(url);
   ```

   The object URL will remain valid as long as the `ImageEditor` component remains active. When the
   component is disposed, all object URLs it generated will be revoked.
   
   The `SaveJsonCallback` callback will receive a JSON string containing a serialized representation
   of the editor's state. This can be passed to the `LoadJSONAsync(string?)` method to allow a user
   to resume editing where they left off.

The `ImageEditor` component supports multiple options for adding custom UI:

  - If you supply `ChildContent` (additional markup nested inside the component, with or without a
    wrapping `ChildContent` element), it will be displayed below the existing controls in both edit
    and preview mode (regardless of the `ShowEditControls` parameter's value).

  - If you supply an `EditContent` child element, it will be displayed when the control is in edit
    mode (regardless of the `ShowEditControls` parameter's value). If you *also* provide an explicit
    `ChildContent` element, the `ChildContent` will be displayed below the `EditContent` when in
    edit mode.

  - If you supply a `PreviewContent` child element, it will be displayed when the control is in
    preview mode (regardless of the `ShowEditButton` parameter's value). If you *also* provide an
    explicit `ChildContent` element, the `ChildContent` will be displayed below the `PreviewContent`
    when in preview mode.

## Roadmap

Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor is currently in a prerelease state. Development is ongoing, and breaking
changes are possible before the first production release.

No release date is currently set for v1.0 of Tavenem.Blazor.ImageEditor.

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Please carefully read the [contributing](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) document to learn more before submitting issues or pull requests.

## Code of conduct

Please read the [code of conduct](docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before engaging with our community, including but not limited to submitting or replying to an issue or pull request.
